Abstract  

This Study will give the concept how to work with the spatial analysis tools of ArcGIS, especially with the overlay functions like Buffer, Clip, Dissolve, Erase, Intersect, Merge, Spatial Join and Union. The students can use this e-Learning tutorial, which is considered the didactic and pedagogical aspects of learning from the e-Learning of GIS.  

Chapter one defines the introductory part of the e-Learning module. The objective of the study will focus in this chapter. The scopes and limitations of the study will be also described in this chapter. 

Chapter two will highlight the theoretical aspects of e-Learning taken from the secondary sources, which is termed as literature review. In this chapter you will find the logical and theoretical overview of e-Learning aspects; the models and forms for effective eLearning, the components of e-Learning model and the pedagogical aspects of eLearning development process. 

Chapter three focuses the information of the e-Learning overview of GIS in Germany. This will give the ideas of the e-Learning modules of ELAN, ELITE@TUB, ESRI, FerGI, FreeGIS, geoinformation.net and gimolus. It will highlight the contents and technical aspects of e-Learning overview of different e-Learning tutorial in Germany. 

Chapter four is for the methodological overview of the e-Learning development process of this tutorial. It includes a spiral model development, which defines the planning, pedagogical requirements, developing prototype, trailing, implementation, course delivery, evaluation and post-course evaluation and reflection of the e-Learning tutorial of GIS. 

Chapter five will give information about the overlay functions of spatial analysis regarding Buffer, Clip, Dissolve, Erase, Intersect, Merge, Spatial Join and Union of GIS. Each of these functions are described with the practical example along with different situation analysis. 

Chapter six generate the information regarding the development process of webdevelopment, which is done with the different techniques e.g. GIS, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, SVG and Adobe Illustrator. After following the development techniques, the students will be able to develop the same web or to maintain the further development of the e-Learning module.  

Chapter seven will discuss the analysis with the result oriented discussion of the Study. This gives the ides of the spatial analysis regarding the results of Buffer, Clip, Dissolve, Erase, Intersect, Merge, Spatial Join and Union which is performed in chapter five through ArcGIS. There are also the mathematical concepts of each individual functions of geoprocessing, upon which these functions work in other GIS software. 

Chapter eight highlights the summary of the expected output, conclusion and recommendations and also the further work for the development and maintenance of the e-Learning tutorial. 
